gazin are waiting for the Rafa border
crossing to open to allow some severely
wounded gazin into Egypt where they will
receive treatment with foreign Nationals
hoping to leave Gaza the Rafa Crossing
has been the only means of getting
crucial Aid into the strip Egyptian
media have reported a deal to allow 81
injured people including children to
cross in the coming hours information
from Gaza has been all but shut down by
a mobile phone and internet at
blackout let's bring in Alona sienko
here she's a spokesperson for the Red
Cross and joins us from Jerusalem uh we
understand that the Rafa border crossing
May well open briefly today in order to
allow some people to leave and cross
into Egypt what more can you tell us
about
that well uh just like everybody else we
are following the situation and we're
waiting uh what's going to happen and we
we hope that people who want to evacuate
they can reach safety but for us as the
humanitarian organization working in
Gaza on the ground the main priority is
delivering humanitarian assistance to
hospitals in Gaza because they are
running a critically short on the
Essential Medical Supplies uh last week
we managed to bring uh some of the
trucks in but this is infinitely small
compared to the massive scale of the
needs that we are
seeing so Alon are you expecting then
that that opening of the if that
crossing the Rafa Crossing between Gaza
and Egypt does open today are you
expecting more humanitarian Aid to flow
into
Gaza it's too early for us to tell uh we
are in con we are in constant dialogue
and negotiations trying to uh bring more
supplies in uh that we have ready and
preposition we now have our surgical
team uh that arrived in Gaza and started
operating so yes we are constantly
calling on uh safe delivery of
humanitarian need on safe humanitarian
access for our colleagues to be able to
uh do their work and also for the
necessary supplies to be able to reach
the people who are now in a desperate
situation as you know Communications
have been cut off to Gaza how is your
staff with the Red Cross coping with
this situation on the
ground well uh yesterday last night uh I
was still managing to reach and speak to
our colleagues in Gaza uh we Tred to be
in contact with them all the time
because it is an extremely difficult
situation for them just like for the all
the other civilians who are there with
uh um
Relentless sounds of explosion shelling
it's uh uh extremely difficult uh I
haven't been able to speak to them this
morning we are of course uh extremely
worried uh because it's important for us
to be able to reach our staff to uh
carry out our work uh it's impossible to
put up a large humanitarian response
without the functioning
telecommunication lines but also just
for the for civilians people need
information about how to reach safety
they need information about where to get
clean water uh need to be able to
contact their families so uh the
humanitarian impact of uh
telecommunication blackout is uh and
could be very
serious what about the limited Aid that
is getting into Gaza it's simply not
enough to go around the needs are so
great and the supply of Aid is so small
how do you prioritize who gets that Aid
how do you distribute it how do you make
that
decision well for us right now the
priority is uh medical uh supporting
hospitals and uh because what we have
seen after we have visited hospitals
around Gaza in different areas uh was
horrifying we have seen medical
professionals who have now been working
for weeks in a row without any PS uh mer
many of them they're also in very
distressed psychological State because
they don't know uh if their own family
members are safe and sometimes they find
their own family members among the
victims that they have to treat uh the
people are Sheltering in play in place
also in the hospitals looking for safety
so supporting hospitals amid this
massive humanitarian crisis is the
number one priority so we managed to
send our Surgical team and they started
working and uh we brought some surgical
supplies but we need more supplies and
yes prioritizing uh in a situation when
needs are so staggeringly high and keep
Rising it's it's a very difficult uh
task I agree with you Alona thank you
very much for taking time to talk with
us today that was Alona sienko
spokesperson for the Red Cross in
Jerusalem thank you